---
title: "Special Issue: Digital Plant Pathology for Precision Agriculture"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-05-19-special
excerpt: ''
date: 2022-05-19
venue: 'Journal of Plant Diseases and Protection'
paperurl: 'http://reneheim.github.io/files/special.pdf'

---
This Special Issue, published in the Journal of Plant Disease
and Protection (JDPD), contains selected papers from the
field of Digital Plant Pathology for Precision Agriculture.
Digital technologies are ubiquitous and influence our daily
living routines. For now over two decades, digital technolo-
gies become increasingly more relevant and present them-
selves in various disciplines of plant pathology and inte-
grated pest management. This domain is a highly dynamic
field and innovations in sensors, robotics, artificial intelli-
gence, and data interpretation open new opportunities for
detection of plant diseases in an automated and noninvasive
way. However, application of available and swiftly devel-
oping technology has posed many challenges. Greenhouse
and field applications are complex and differ in their study
design requirements. Deciding on a sensor type (e.g., ther-
mography, or hyperspectral), a deployment platform (e.g.,
rovers, UAVs, or satellites), and the appropriate spatial and
temporal scale adds to the challenge. This is because the
complexity of all pathosystems (host, pathogen, biotic/abi-
otic environment) is unique and differs in their interactions
and symptomology, or lack thereof.

[Download paper here](http://reneheim.github.io/files/special.pdf)

Recommended citation: Mahlein A-K, Heim RH-J, Brugger A, Gold K, Li Y, Bashir AK, Paulus S, Kuska MT. 2022. Special Issue: Digital Plant Pathology for Precision Agriculture. Journal of Plant Diseases and Protection 129: 455–456.
